New topic for creating ACL rule. (#6453)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.3/ext-best-practices/tutorials/create-access-control-list-rule.md

---
group: extension-best-practices
title: Create Access Control List(ACL) Rule
contributor_name: Ziffity
contributor_link: https://www.Ziffity.com/
---

Access Control List(ACL) rules allow admin to limit the permissions of users in Magento. We can use ACL rules for authorize the users to access menu,controllers and API endpoints.

> 

Reviewer: You need to explicitly state what you'll be doing in this example. You're creating three custom resources (Custom Menu, Create, Delete), creating a role that has access to these resources, and taking steps to restrict access by three entities (Admin users, controllers, and web APIs).

## Step 1. Create acl.xml

In your module, create acl.xml file. This file adds the custom resources in resource tree.

> `etc/acl.xml`

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:Acl/etc/acl.xsd">
    <acl>
        <resources>
            <resource id="Magento_Backend::admin">
                <resource id="Vendor_MyModule::menu" title="Custom Menu" sortOrder="10" >
                    <resource id="Vendor_MyModule::create" title="Create" sortOrder="0" />
                    <resource id="Vendor_MyModule::delete" title="Delete" sortOrder="100" />
                </resource>
            </resource>
        </resources>
    </acl>
</config>
```

> ##Step 2. Create user role with custom resources

Reviewer: Add a description of what you're doing in this step.

1. Navigate to **SYSTEM** > Permissions > **User Roles** 
1. After clicking the Role Resources tab, select Resource Access as Custom.
![Resource access as custom]({{ site.baseurl }}/common/images/ext-best-practices/resource-access-custom-create-acl-rule.png)
1. Select the resources and save the role.
![Resource tree]({{ site.baseurl }}/common/images/ext-best-practices/role-resources-create-acl-rule.png)

##Step 3. Use ACL in Menu

> In your module create `menu.xml` file. We can hide the menu to the users by adding the `resource` attribute to `add` nodes in menu.xml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your module, create the `etc/adminhtml/menu.xml` file. This file defines a menu that will be hidden from unauthorized users. The `resource` attributes in the `add` nodes determine which resource each action accesses.
```

> > `etc/adminhtml/menu.xml`

Reviewer: Delete this line.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Backend:etc/menu.xsd">
    <menu>
     <add id="Vendor_MyModule::menu" title="Custom Menu" module="Vendor_MyModule" sortOrder="10" resource="Vendor_MyModule::menu"/>
     <add id="Vendor_MyModule::create" title="Create" module="Vendor_MyModule" sortOrder="10" parent="Vendor_MyModule::menu" action="custommenu/create/index" resource="Vendor_MyModule::create"/>
     <add id="Vendor_MyModule::delete" title="Delete" module="Vendor_MyModule" sortOrder="20" parent="Vendor_MyModule::menu" action="custommenu/delete/index" resource="Vendor_MyModule::delete"/>
    </menu>
</config>
```

> 

Reviewer: I think a graphic showing the menu would be helpful.

> ##Step 4. Use ACL in Controllers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4. Restrict controller access
```

> We can restrict the access to admin controllers by overriding the `_isAllowed` method of \Magento\Framework\App\Action\Action class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can restrict the access to admin controllers by overriding the `_isAllowed` method of the `\Magento\Framework\App\Action\Action` class.
```

> > `Controller/Adminhtml/Create/Index.php`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following to your module's `Controller/Adminhtml/Create/Index.php` file:
```

```php
protected function _isAllowed()
{
 return $this->_authorization->isAllowed('Vendor_MyModule::create');
}
```

> > `Controller/Adminhtml/Delete/Index.php`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following to your module's `Controller/Adminhtml/Delete/Index.php` file:
```

```php
protected function _isAllowed()
{
 return $this->_authorization->isAllowed('Vendor_MyModule::delete');
}
```

> ##Step 5. Use ACL in API endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 5. Restrict web API access
```

> We can restrict the users to access API endpoints, using the ACL rule. When we creates Web API configuration file (webapi.xml), the rules defined in acl.xml can be use to restrict the access to API endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can restrict users from accessing API endpoints by using the ACL rule. By creating a Web API configuration file (`etc/webapi.xml`), the rules defined in `acl.xml` can restrict the access to API endpoints.
```

> > `etc/webapi.xml`

Reviewer: Delete this line

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0"?>
<routes xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Webapi:etc/webapi.xsd">
    <route url="/V1/admin/create" method="POST">
        <service class="Vendor\MyModule\Api\Create" method="execute"/>
        <resources>
            <resource ref="Vendor_MyModule::create" />
        </resources>
    </route>
</routes>
```

> If user doesn't have permission, the action page will be like below.

Reviewer: If the user does not have permissions, the action page displays an "Access denied" message.

> ![Not allowed user action page]({{ site.baseurl }}/common/images/ext-best-practices/not_allowed_users_create_acl_rule.png)

Reviewer: Delete this graphic.
